>> David Khourshid: We have
a lot of useeffects here and
this is all powering this component
where let's say that we have a form.
I like to call this an I'm
feeling lucky page because it
automatically chooses a flight and
a hotel for me.
So if I, for example, want to go to
Tokyo and I put a start date and
I put an end date, then it's automatically
going to trigger this flight search first.
And then once it finds a flight,
it's going to find the appropriate hotel.
And then whenever I change something, so
let's say I want to go to Berlin instead,
it's going to restart that search and it's
going to restart that hotel search and
same thing, if I change the date,
it's going to restart everything.
So yeah, that's an example
of a feature that would be
cool except the code for
it is a little bit of a mess.
So what I want you to do is start
refactoring this into a reducer with
events and then reduce the number
of use effects to a single effect.
All right, so
let's get rid of this use effect chain
that's causing us a lot of pain.
I don't mean to rhyme, but
it just came out that way.
First, let's set up our booking state.
Because we do,
since this is going to be an event and
state based approach,
we do want to use a reducer.
It's not 100% necessary, but
it does really help here.
So this could be in one of these
statuses either idle searching flights,
searching hotels, or you know,
maybe we have an error state and
then we have a bunch of inputs.
And so these inputs are represented
by everything over here.
So we have our destination,
our start date and also our end dates.
And then we have a few other things to
add too where we want to represent the.
For instance, the selected flight.
And again this should
be selected flight id,
the selected hotel id and also just
an error could be string or null.
This again is how I would start out.
And you could later use
discriminated unions if you want to.
So then we are going to
actually create the reducer and
yeah, so
let me just const booking reducer.
We also need our actions as well.
And so this is something where
it's really useful to first play
around with the UI and actually see
what is happening at an abstract level.
Because in this application we
don't really have events or
we don't have actions or things like that.
Instead it's just data changing that's
triggering all of these use effects.
So the first one we
could see is that we're
triggering something
when our inputs update.
So we could, let's just type action here,
let's call this input updated.
And so we have our inputs over here.
And so this would be like the destination,
start date,
end dates and it could be some of those.
We also have the flight was updated,
so type or sorry, the flight was.
Yeah, so chosen or
I'm just going to call it updated.
And then you know,
we have our flights data over here or
the hotel was updated and
then we'll just stick with that.
So I'm going to put state over here and
then we have to actually
go through our actions.
So if the input was updated,
then we are going
to return the state with
the updated inputs.
Now here's where things actually
get a little bit interesting.
Let's const inputs equals
the state inputs and everything.
So we actually don't need to do this.
Now if we have the inputs.destination and
we have the inputs start date and
the inputs end date,
then we actually want to go
directly to searching flights.
So this is something that we
previously used a useeffect for.
So you could see over here we're
triggering that whenever we have all
three of these things we set issearching
flights to true and error to null.
And so instead we can avoid a rerender,
and we could centralize that logic.
So we could even add a comment here
that say if all the inputs are provided,
then we want to trigger flight search.
So when the flight is updated we
immediately want to start searching for
the hotels, but
we also want to have our flight id.
And then when the hotel
is updated we want to,
we want to set the hotel ID and
then just go back to an idle state.
And so what this is going to do, and
I'll just show you the end result is
it's going to reduce the number of
useeffects we have down to one.
And the reason that it's only one instead
of all of these four is that now we're
basing what we should do next on what
the state is, so what the finite state is.
So if we go to effects solution
page we could see we only have
a single use effect.
Now we have our reducer over here and
in this use effect
we're determining what to
do based on the status.
So if the status is search flights, this
is where we actually start searching for
the flights.
If the status is search hotels,
then we search hotels in here.
And all of this is based on states.
So you can even abstract this
into a custom component.
Or you could abstract both or sorry,
not a custom component but a custom hook.
Or you could abstract both of
these into a custom hook and
it would look something like
function usetrip search and
you would have this reducer, you would
have your useeffect from below over there.
So this would be whatever that
useeffect block was below.
And then you would just return state and
dispatch as a table tuple.
And then what you could do
is instead of all of this,
you could just use trip search and
all of that logic.
Both the states and the effects
are centralized in one single hook.
So we've eliminated the number
of useeffects we use.
Everything is declarative,
we have dispatches.
But yeah, so that's the general idea
of reducing chained use effects.
So, any questions on that?
By the way,
the solution in this is not perfect.
So I invite you to take a look, see if
there are things that can be improved and
fix them yourself.
But it does go to show how we can
remove those unnecessary use effects.